# Laboratory protocol: Electrochemical exfoliation and functionalisation of graphene
1. Cut a graphite electrode of the desired size. Weigh it for yield calculation.

2. A two-electrode setup is used with the graphite electrode as the anode (connected to the positive terminal of a DC power supply) and a platinum mesh as the cathode (connected to the negative terminal). The electrolyte is 75 mL of 0.1 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> and a 100 mL beaker is used. For functionalisation the diazonium compound is added to the electrolyte by either dissolving it as a salt or making it in situ. When using diazonium salts the concentration is 1 mM. The two electrodes are approximately 4 cm apart and should be facing each other. A voltage of 9-10 V is now applied to initiate exfoliation and it is left for 1 hour.

3. The graphite electrode is rinsed with water to get excess graphene flakes off and saved for weighing (yield). All the exfoliated graphene and electrolyte solvent is poured into a 250 mL flask (the ones with a blue lid). Collect the exfoliated graphene with vacuum filtration, using a 45 µm nylon membrane, wash several times with water. When using diazonium salts also rinse with acetonitrile and acetone. Graphene flakes are suspended in DMF (200 mL). Ultrasonicate for 10 minutes. Leave the graphene to sediment in DMF for 24 hours, to separate the large flakes from the smaller flakes. Pipette the top part leaving approximately 0.5-1.0 cm in the flask. Vacuum filtrate again to separate the flakes from the DMF, rinse with water. Resuspend the graphene in approximately 100 mL water and ultrasonicate for 15-20 minutes.

4. Transfer the graphene/water to a 500 mL round bottom flask and freeze dry it. Firstly freeze it with liquid nitrogen before attaching it to the freeze dryer. Leave for 1-2 days and you have graphene powder.

5. For 18 samples (a single batch) of dog bones with polyurethane 20 mL polyol is used. Add the required amount of graphene powder to a small 25 mL beaker (high sides) and pour the polyol over. Blend with the high shear mixer for 30 minutes. Cover the top with parafilm during blending. Deliver to the engineers for moulding and testing.
